The Writing Committee of the Governing Body continues to take the lead in
producing Bible-based publications. This includes translation of the Bible into
more languages, continued work on the online study Bible, and improvements to
magazines, including both the public and study editions of the Watchtower. Such
adjustments not only help us to accomplish our commission to preach more fully,
but also allow us to make better use of donated funds. In 2016 and 2017, the
New World Translation was released in 30 additional languages. Also, translations
or revisions are currently underway in well over 100 languages. In many of those
languages, Bibles are not available, very expensive, or difficult to obtain. The
goal of the revised New World Translation is to use easy to understand modern
language that encourages reading. In some languages, Bibles use words that are
found only in religious or archaic literature. However, those words are not used
by people in everyday life. For example, Thai and Burmese Bibles provided by
Christendom use a formal, honorific language. Those Bibles use forms of
address for God that would be used when speaking to a king, but since no one
speaks that way in everyday conversation, many of the words are not understood
by the general public. Also, it is difficult to view Jehovah as a loving father
when one would never speak to his own father in this way. However, now that the
brothers have the New World Translation in everyday language, many readers have
reported that they feel closer to Jehovah. Another blessing we have
recently received is the online study Bible. Although not yet available in many
languages, this provision is already the most research publication our
organization has ever produced. While we use our regular Bible in the preaching
work, the study Bible is designed for personal study. Among other features, the
study Bible contains a media gallery with new artwork, 3D models, videos, and photos.
This requires a considerable amount of effort to produce. Many of the
photographs and videos are from Bible lands. At times, archaeological sites
include numerous layers from different time periods. Researchers must then
determine which ruins are from the specific era being considered. There are
other challenges as well. Many historical sites are located in areas with strict
governmental travel restrictions, including no fly zones. To get aerial views
using a drone, the brothers must obtain special authorization from the
authorities. Since January 2018, the public editions of the Watchtower and
Awake were adjusted so that instead of each covering multiple subjects, they
now cover just one subject per issue. This gives us the opportunity to focus on
specific topics that are of the most interest and benefit to the public. The
magazines are also designed to be offered in the ministry for many months, rather
than just a few weeks after their release date. There will also be many new and
exciting improvements made to the study edition of the Watchtower. Starting in
2019, it will have a new design and layout. Each study article will be
numbered to correspond to the 52 weeks of the calendar year. Also, a somewhat
larger font will be used. Many of the brothers and sisters who use the paper
copy of the magazine live in locations with poor lighting conditions. With a
larger font, the magazine will be easier for them to read. The new design will
also occasionally include a picture description that explains the content of
an image. This will be of great help in the Braille field. Additionally, the
song numbers for the Watchtower study will include the title of the song. The
opening song of the study will appear at the beginning of the article and the
concluding song at the end of the article. Similarly, the review questions will
appear at the end of the article rather than the beginning. As these adjustments
are implemented, the English-simplified edition of the Watchtower will be
discontinued in 2019. Instead, the regular study edition will use simpler
language. This cuts in half the print design, layout, and composition work that
is involved. Jehovah is truly speeding up the work, enabling us to focus on what
really matters in this time of the end, helping others to learn the truth about
our loving Heavenly Father.